Title:The Adventures of Pinocchio
An old carpenter carves a little wooden puppet from a mysterious piece of wood that seems to have the ability to talk! He begins to love the little creature like his own son and names him Pinocchio. But the mischievous fellow runs away from his loving father as soon as he learns to walk. The Adventures of Pinocchio by Carlo Collodi follows the misadventures and naughty exploits of this delightfully “human” puppet who in his heart of hearts longs only to become a real boy.

Carlo Collodi was the pen name of a gifted writer of children's books, Carlo Lorenzini who lived in Florence, Italy, during the late 19th century. He was also a political activist and author of several novels, short novels, articles and sketches for adults. He began writing for children in 1876 and translated children's literature from other languages into Italian.

The Adventures of Pinnochio is meant to be an allegory and a cautionary tale for children. Through the adventures of this playful and headstrong puppet, Collodi provides many valuable lessons for young children. Wonderful characters like the Talking Cricket, the Fox and the Cat, the Fairy with the Turquoise Hair and old Gepetto himself are colorful, memorable and each one contributes to Pinnochio's final transformation. With plenty of magical moments, fantasy and thrills, the plot provides enough excitement for children of all ages.

Since it first appeared in 1883, the book has enjoyed immense fame and popularity. There have been innumerable translations into more than 250 major world languages, making it the most translated book in the world. There have been plenty of adaptations for stage, radio, television and film, including cartoons and merchandise. Pinnochio's long nose has even become a metaphor for people who tell lies.

As a pioneer in the field, Collodi's works became instantly popular, as children's literature as a genre was not very prevalent before the 19th century. His easy and engaging style caught the imagination of children instantly and became a benchmark for children's writers ever since. There are some very endearing and thought-provoking moments and incidents in the story, which make it very memorable for both children and adults. Enduring values of love and loyalty, the essential contradictions that make us human and the transformation of a rebellious, thoughtless, uncaring and self-indulgent youngster into a mature young person are what makes this story so beloved and treasured the world over.